hey do you have a team working remotely
or are you thinking about hosting a
face-to-face planning workshop to bring
the whole team together well this short
video is for you I'll share three or
four tips on how you can host a
successful workshop for you and your
team this is something I have done for
many many years I'm very very good at it
and Pam din here B2B marketing
consultant Workshop facilitator and a
coach so here are couple things you need
to pay attention then you're going to
look like Rockstar number one understand
organizational goals and
objectives before you host any Workshop
you need to craft a clear meeting
objective why do you want to get the
whole team together are we getting
together to address specific challenges
or are we getting together to work on a
plan what is the goal make that super
clear and and also make sure you know
reorganizations business imperatives
goals and objectives most of the time we
get together because we want to
accomplish what the company is set out
to do therefore knowing these will guide
you as a leader to structure your
Workshop number two craft your
agenda agenda setting is a critical part
of a workshop planning again the agenda
is derived from your Workshop objectives
see the objective is to get together to
work on the marketing plan then you need
to craft a marketing plan draft so that
the team can work together optimally
don't just show up with a blank sheet of
paper and say hey that's work together
that's not going to fly the best way to
do is to present
something that the team react to it that
way you are get guaranteed to have
something to work on
together if your Workshop is 2 or 3 days
which is quite long you are likely to
have executive updates educational
content that include guests coming to
teach the team about something or
working brainstorming sessions you need
to mix different topics and the
presentation format some sessions they
will just sit and listen in others the
team will will be interacting talking
and in the trenches working
together you need to find a good balance
of talking and doing by the way the
agenda is usually very fluid and won't
be set until two to four weeks before
the workshop and you need to be okay
with that if you are a type a person
like me like we want things to be set
from the GetGo that's not going to
happen
because many people will have something
to say about the agenda and you will
find that yourself changing your topics
especially on the items of agenda on
regular basis be okay with it right as a
part of agenda setting don't forget to
add team dinners and the team building
activities as part of the agenda I have
worked with the clients who forgot to do
that initially and scramble to find
something the last minute okay you want
to have fun you do all right not just
like very seriously
working number three coordinate with the
presenters and facilitators now you have
agenda is tentatively said and the
presenters are somewhat identified your
job is to H the
Gap brief each presenter about the
workshop objectives and explain what you
need from them then you need to review
their presentation to make sure they
accomplish your session goals don't take
what they share with you as it is have a
point The View and tell them what to do
if you want them to revise it if you
have brainstorming or working session
you may need Workshop facilitators
depending on your structure of your
Workshop again make sure your
facilitators have appropriate training
and skill set to lead discussions
address impasses and direct and guide
the conversation so everyone stays on
topic I'd recommend that you have a
workshop owner and a facilitator tag
team during a workshop to move the genda
along especially in a large group
Gathering number four have a great time
at a workshop so you did everything you
did everything right you did all the
preparation agenda I said presenter are
ready to go offside activity is going to
be awesome and everybody's confirmed
with your trouble Logistics and you have
training session working session will
qualify facilitators to run the show
with you yay Murphy's Law something will
always go
wrong never
fails you may need to move your agenda
around because last minute speaker no
show or maybe screen monitors are just
not working I once experience a power
outage during the workshops seriously
for two hours we actually went out for a
walk and then came back and work out
whatever we had to work on during that
time so whatever happens happen just
embrace it and have a good time and
that's very very important tell all my
clients to do
that lastly post Workshop
followup after everyone bids fwell from
the workshop you need to publish
Workshop minutes that everyone know what
has been accomplished and what other
tasks I get to be completed as well as
who is doing what regular followup with
task owners and provide updates at your
future team meetings very critical I
hope this was helpful and if you have
any questions be sure to drop them in
the comments below I will answer them if
you need help leading facilitating any
business planning or other types of
Workshop reach out to me anytime I've
done them all and would love to give you
some insight if you decide to do a DIY
until next time take care
bye